# Congressional Supervision of America's Secret Agencies: The Experience and Legacy of the Church Committee

- Summary:
  - Outline of intelligence community abuse of powers and congressional oversight
  - Pre-Snowden
- Purpose:
- Premises:
- Contributions:
- Policy comments:
  - There are 13 intelligence agencies?? (as of 2004; not sure if this includes Homeland Security)
  - The theory of congressional oversight is good (statutory limits, power of the purse, influence of lobbies and
    media), but
    - Often the work of _performing_ oversight is boring and even undesirable politically
    - Agencies have the ability to hide things in bureaucratic webs
    - Intelligence agencies have the ability to classify things and claim a need for secrecy
  - Statutory grounds for the agencies: National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401)
  - Significant history and accounts of abuse, particularly by the FBI with Cointelpro
  - The CIA participated in drug experiments, election manipulation, and attempted assassinations of heads of state
  - Criticism can be deemed unpatriotic. Oftentimes, congressional watchdogs didn't even _want_ to know what was
    happening
  - We had to be evil to beat evil. If rights-abusing countries can pull us down to their level, they win, no?
  - Relevant laws
    - National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401) -- authorization of intelligence agencies
    - Hughes-Ryan Act on December 31, 1974 (22 U.S.C. 2422) -- force CIA to report activities
    - _Creation of the permanent Senate Select Committee on Intelligence_
    - Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (50 U.S.C. 1801-11) -- created a court to oversee wiretap requests
- Technical comments:
- Notes:

Abstract

> In 1947, the United States created a modern intelligence community to guard against another surprise attack like the
one at Pearl Harbor. This community consists of 13 major agencies, among them the CIA and the FBI. Concealed from public
view, they pose a significant challenge to the concept of government accountability in a democratic society. This
article examines the failure of congressional lawmakers to hold the secret agencies accountable during the Cold War.
Contrary to recent theoretical research on legislative oversight, which suggests reasons that accountability has been
strong in the United States, this study finds that a weak system of legislative review has permitted a dangerous erosion
of civil liberties. The study also explores the efforts of the Church Committee in 1975 to fashion new safeguards that
would reduce the probability of further abuse of power by the intelligence community.

> The results of this hands-off approach to intelligence supervision are probed here, using the methodologies of
archival research, interviews with government officials, and participant observation as a scholar-in-residence on
Capitol Hill. Lord Acton's venerable aphorism provides a working hypothesis: "Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts
absolutely." To which he might have added, "especially secret power."

> One of the committee members asked Clark Clifford, who had helped to draft the charter for the CIA in 1947 and served
as secretary of defense during the Johnson administration, about constitutional protections against abuses. He replied,
"Well, that was a different time when we could afford that."

>William Sullivan of the FBI testified about another influence that contributed to the lawlessness that gripped the
intelligence agencies (U.S. Congress 1976). "During World War Two, we had grown up topsy-turvy," he said, "when legal
matters were secondary to achieving victory against the Nazis. This mentality carried over easily into the new war
against the communists." During the course of its inquiry, the committee came across a telling top secret document that
had been prepared for President Dwight D. Eisenhower (U.S. Congress 1976, 9). A key passage advised that, in the war
against Communism, "... hitherto acceptable norms of human conduct do not apply. If the U.S. is to survive,
long-standing American concepts of 'fair play' must be reconsidered ... we must lear to subvert, sabotage, and destroy
our enemies by more clear, more sophisticated and more effective methods than those used against us." The underlying
philosophy reminded Schwarz (2000), the committee counsel, of Macbeth's words: Inevitably, the invention returns home
"to plague the inventor.

> In 1978, as urged by the Church Committee, Congress passed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (50 U.S.C.
1801-11), which provided for a special court to review wiretap requests. The third branch of government, too, was now
firmly in the business of intelligence oversight.

Seems that this didn't come to pass (or was violated):

> The Church Committee also proposed that all non-consensual electronic surveillance, mail opening, and unauthorized
entities be conducted only with the authority of a judicial warrant, rather than allowing the White House and the
intelligence agencies to use such invasive tools at their own discretion.

> Soon after the investigation, historian Henry Steele Commager observed that the indifference of the intelligence
agencies to constitutional restraint was "perhaps the most threatening of all the evidence that [emerged] from the
findings of the Church Committee."

HAHAHAHAHA:
> The best assurance against future abuse lies, as the ancient philosophers realized, in the selection of individuals of
the highest integrity for positions of power.

```bib
@article{johnson_congressional_2004,
  title = {Congressional {Supervision} of {America}'s {Secret} {Agencies}: {The} {Experience} and {Legacy} of the
{Church} {Committee}},
  volume = {64},
  issn = {0033-3352, 1540-6210},
  shorttitle = {Congressional {Supervision} of {America}'s {Secret} {Agencies}},
  url = {http://doi.wiley.com/10.1111/j.1540-6210.2004.00342.x},
  doi = {10.1111/j.1540-6210.2004.00342.x},
  language = {en},
  number = {1},
  urldate = {2020-07-19},
  journal = {Public Administration Review},
  author = {Johnson, Loch K.},
  month = jan,
  year = {2004},
  pages = {3--14}
}
```
