# Escalating U.S. Police Surveillance after 9/11: an Examination of Causes and Effects

- Summary:
  - Describes the U.S. government's evolving policy of surveillance, particularly in response to 9/11
- Purpose:
- Premises:
- Contributions:
- Policy comments:
- Technical comments:
- Notes:

>Views of surveillance and privacy have changed dramatically in recent years. Some commentators assert that the U.S.
has experienced a progressive shift in the balance between police surveillance authority and individual privacy rights
(Chang, 2003; Bloss, 2005). Others cite the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 (9/ 11 hereafter) as a watershed
event that provided the catalyst for the widening of police surveillance and search authority (Posner, 2003; Romero,
2003). The record is replete with examples of U.S. official responses to perceived public safety threats that have
precipitated an increase in police surveillance activity (Brown, 2003).

>The central position of this paper is that U.S. lawmakers a nd courts have reacted to perceived global terrorism and
crime threats by modifying established civil privacy protections, under the aegis of “preventive law enforcement,”
thereby giving the police broader surveillance powers (Cole, 2003). As a result, the police have transformed their
operational approaches and surveillance practices to focus more on information and intelligence gathering (Peterson,
2005; Carter, 2004). This has produced a new privacy paradigm, as the balance between police surveillance a uthority and
civil privacy protection shifts. This paper explains the factors that have caused or contributed to this transition and
its effect on civil privacy and civil life in U.S. society.

>The paper first examines the legal and political causes for the change in the “competing interests” balance between
official surveillance and individual privacy protection ( O’Connor v. Ortega , 1987). Second, it discusses the
operational and programmatic emphasis U.S. police are now placing on surveillance methods and data. Third, it explores
the effects of these changes on civil privacy rights and civil life. These include the disruption of public life, “net
widening” of police surveillance activities, and diminution of personal privacy rights (Laqueur, 1999).

```bib
@article{bloss_escalating_2007,
  title = {Escalating {U}.{S}. {Police} {Surveillance} after 9/11: an {Examination} of {Causes} and {Effects}},
  volume = {4},
  issn = {1477-7487},
  shorttitle = {Escalating {U}.{S}. {Police} {Surveillance} after 9/11},
  url = {https://ojs.library.queensu.ca/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/view/3448},
  doi = {10.24908/ss.v4i3.3448},
  abstract = {In recent years U.S. police have been given greater surveillance powers in response to perceived threats
from crime, drugs, and terrorism. Several legal and criminal events have facilitated a reevaluation of the balance
between police surveillance authority and civil privacy protection. In the post-9/11 era, changes in federal law, court
interpretation of privacy safeguards, and technological advances have expanded the circumstances and methods by which
the police may engage in surveillance of civil activities. This paper examines the factors contributing to the
escalation in police surveillance and its effects on privacy rights and civil life. The analysis suggests that
increasing police surveillance has diminished individual privacy protections and impacted aspects of civil life.},
  number = {3},
  urldate = {2020-03-27},
  journal = {Surveillance \& Society},
  author = {Bloss, William},
  month = sep,
  year = {2007}
}
```
