# Dilemmas in a general theory of planning

- Summary:
  - The original wicked problems paper
- Purpose:
- Premises:
- Contributions:
- Policy comments:
  - ten distinguishing properties of planning-type problems
    1. There is no definitive formulation of a wicked problem
    2. Wicked problems have no stopping rule
    3. Solutions to wicked problems are not true-or-false, but good-or-bad
    4. There is no immediate and no ultimate test of a  solution to a  wicked problem
    5. Every solution to a  wicked problem is a  "one-shot operation"; because there is no opportunity to learn by
       trial-and-error, every attempt counts significantly
    6. Wicked problems do not have an enumerable (or an exhaustively describable) set of potential solutions, nor is
       there a well-described set of permissible operations that may be incorporated into the plan
    7. Every wicked problem is essentially unique
    8. Every wicked problem can be considered to be a symptom of another problem
    9. The  existence of a discrepancy representing a wicked problem can be explained in numerous ways. The choice of
       explanation determines the nature of the problem's resolution
    10. The planner has no right to be wrong
  - Key idea: defining the problem is concomitant with finding the solution. Taming a problem is defining it, at which
    point it becomes a tame, or deterministic problem, at which point it can be solved with classical methods.
- Technical comments:
- Notes:
  - Link: https://archive.epa.gov/reg3esd1/data/web/pdf/rittel%2bwebber%2bdilemmas%2bgeneral_theory_of_planning.pdf

>We have been learning to see social processes as the links tying open systems into large and interconnected networks of
systems, such that outputs from one become inputs to others. In that structural framework it has become less apparent
where problem centers lie, and less apparent where and how we should intervene even if we do happen to know what aims we
seek. We are now sensitized to the waves of repercussions generated by a problem-solving action directed to any one node
in the network, and we are no longer surprised to find it inducing problems of greater severity at some other node. And
so we have been forced to expand the boundaries of the systems we deal with, trying to internalize those externalities.

>The systems-approach "of the first generation" [classical analytics; essentially OODA as well due to its
observe->orient linearity] is inadequate for dealing with wicked-problems. Approaches of the "second generation" should
be based on a model of planning as an argumentative process in the course of which an image of the problem and of the
solution emerges gradually among the participants, as a product of incessant judgment, subjected to critical argument.

So replace observe->orient with "planning as an argumentative process in the course of which an image of the problem and
of the solution emerges gradually among the participants, as a product of incessant judgment." What does this mean?

- ~~observe->orient~~
- Argumentative process
  - problem+solution emerge gradually
  - among intellectually and ideologically representative participants
  - characterized by incessant judgement and critical argument

>By now we are all beginning to realize that one of the most intractable problems is that of defining problems (of
knowing what distinguishes an observed condition from a desired condition) and of locating problems (finding where in
the complex causal networks the trouble really lies). In turn, and equally intractable, is the problem of identifying
the actions that might effectively narrow the gap between what-is and what-ought-to-be. As we seek to improve the
effectiveness of actions in pursuit of valued outcomes, as system boundaries get stretched, and as we become more
sophisticated about the complex workings of open societal systems, it becomes ever more difficult to make the planning
idea operational.

>The information needed to understand the problem depends upon one's idea for solving it. That is to say: in order to
describe a wicked-problem in sufficient detail, one has to develop an exhaustive inventory of all conceivable solutions
ahead of time. The reason is that every question asking for additional information depends upon the understanding of the
problem--and its resolution--at that time. Problem understanding and problem resolution are concomitant to each other.
Therefore, in order to anticipate all questions (in order to anticipate all information required for resolution ahead of
time), knowledge of all conceivable solutions is required.

^ Excellent quote. I should reference this if I get asked a stumper at my defense :D

>The problem can't be defined until the solution has been found.

>Some additional investment of effort might increase the chances of finding a better solution. The planner terminates
work on a wicked problem, not for reasons inherent in the "logic" of the problem. He stops for considerations that are
external to the problem: he runs out of time, or money, or patience. He finally says, "That's good enough," or "This is
the best I can do within the limitations of the project," or "I like this solution," etc.

>With wicked problems, on the other hand, any solution, after being implemented, will generate waves of consequences
over an extended--virtually an unbounded-- period of time. Moreover, the next day's consequences of the solution may
yield utterly undesirable repercussions which outweigh the intended advantages or the advantages accomplished hitherto.
In such cases, one would have been better off if the plan had never been carried out.

>If we are right about that, the direct transference of the physical-science and engineering thoughtways into social
policy might be dysfunctional, i.e. positively harmful. "Solutions" might be applied to seemingly familiar problems
which are quite incompatible with them.

>Here lies a difficulty with incrementalism, as well. This doctrine advertises a policy of small steps, in the hope of
contributing systematically to overall improvement. If, however, the problem is attacked on too low a level (an
increment), then success of resolution may result in making things worse, because it may become more difficult to deal
with the higher problems. Marginal improvement does not guarantee overall improvement.

^^ Paper critiques both classical analytical method and incrementalism (muddling through)

>Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the members of an organization tend to see the problems on a level
below their own level. If you ask a police chief what the problems of the police are, he is likely to demand better
hardware.

^^ That is an interesting insight. Can think about that one for a while.

>That is to say, the choice of explanation is arbitrary in the logical sense. In actuality, attitudinal criteria guide
the choice. People choose those explanations which are most plausible to them. Somewhat but not much exaggerated, you
might say that everybody picks that explanation of a discrepancy which fits his intentions best and which conforms to
the action-prospects that are available to him. The analyst's "world view" is the strongest determining factor in
explaining a discrepancy and, therefore, in resolving a wicked problem.

```bib
@article{rittel_dilemmas_1973,
  title = {Dilemmas in a general theory of planning},
  volume = {4},
  issn = {0032-2687, 1573-0891},
  url = {http://link.springer.com/10.1007/BF01405730},
  doi = {10.1007/BF01405730},
  language = {en},
  number = {2},
  urldate = {2020-04-08},
  journal = {Policy Sciences},
  author = {Rittel, Horst W. J. and Webber, Melvin M.},
  month = jun,
  year = {1973},
  pages = {155--169}
}
```
