# The Science of "Muddling Through"

- Summary:
  - Original "muddling through" paper
- Purpose:
- Premises:
- Contributions:
- Policy comments:
- Technical comments:
- Notes:
  - Very good! I should have read sooner
  - Makes the wicked problems paper sound surprisingly redundant
  - On "Non-Comprehensive Analysis (4b)"
    - Involves comparison to the status quo, hence incrementalism
    - See rozenshtein_wicked_2018 for a response on why the status quo is not necessarily a good reference

>The incremental character of political change in the United States has often been re- marked. The two major political
parties agree on fundamentals; they offer alternative policies to the voters only on relatively small points of
difference.

^^ Oh man...

> Party behavior is in turn rooted in public attitudes, and political theorists cannot conceive of democracy's surviving
in the United States in the absence of fundamental agreement on potentially disruptive issues, with consequent
limitation of policy debates to relatively small differences in policy.

^^ God help us.

> Since the policies ignored by the administrator are politically impossible and so irrelevant, the simplification of
analysis achieved by concentrating on policies that differ only incrementally is not a capricious kind of
simplification. In addition, it can be argued that, given the limits on knowledge within which policy-makers are
confined, simplifying by limiting the focus to small variations from present policy makes the most of available
knowledge. Because policies being considered are like present and past policies, the administrator can obtain
information and claim some insight. Non-incremental policy proposals are therefore typically not only politically
irrelevant but also unpredictable in their consequences.

^^ Interesting. Perhaps this could be suggesting the root method for big changes and incrementalism in between. Due to
societal changes we need probably several big changes; technological change has made change in this area especially
necessary--or at least politically imaginable, and therefore relevant. The very fact that it is being discussed in a
not-purely-partisan manner is evidence of its relevance.

>The final distinctive element in the branch method is that the comparisons, together with the policy choice, proceed in
a chronological series. Policy is not made once and for all; it is made and re-made endlessly. Policy-making is a
process of successive approximation to some desired objectives in which what is desired itself continues to change under
reconsideration.

^^ Popular quote. This emphasizes iteration, which I also emphasize. This method is considerably better than the
classical method for wicked problems... What are its weaknesses? Inability (by design--though it isn't designed!) of
drastic change. Drastic change is necessary sometimes. Does _not_ require agreement on goals per se, but does assume a
close enough match in major world-view that discussion on the margins makes sense; it has a strong assumption of
bipartisanship (see following quote "Suppose..."); this is increasingly not the case in a no-compromise climate. It is
also quite informal. This paper seeks to formalize it, but it is more descriptive than prescriptive (see following quote
"This difference..."). See also his own admission of weaknesses in the method (see quote "None the less...").

>Suppose an administrator must choose among a small group of policies that differ only incrementally from each other
and from present policy...

>For example, without a more comprehensive social theory about juvenile delinquency than scholars have yet produced, one
cannot possibly understand the ways in which a variety of public policies-say on education, housing, recreation,
employment, race relations, and policing-might encourage or discourage delinquency. And one needs such an understanding
if he undertakes the comprehensive overview of the problem prescribed in the models of the root method. If, however, one
merely wants to mobilize knowledge sufficient to assist in a choice among a small group of similar policies-alternative
policies on juvenile court procedures, for example- he can do so by comparative analysis of the results of similar past
policy moves.

>The assumption of root analysts is that theory is the most systematic and economical way to bring relevant knowledge to
bear on a specific problem. Granting the assumption, an unhappy fact is that we do not have adequate theory to apply to
problems in any policy area, although theory is more adequate in some areas--monetary policy, for example--than in
others. Comparative analysis, as in the branch method, is sometimes a systematic alternative to theory.

>This difference explains-in some cases at least-why the administrator often feels that the outside expert or academic
problem-solver is sometimes not helpful and why they in turn often urge more theory on him. And it explains why an
administrator often feels more confident when "flying by the seat of his pants" than when following the advice of
theorists. Theorists often ask the administrator to go the long way round to the solution of his problems, in effect ask
him to follow the best canons of the scientific method, when the administrator knows that the best available theory will
work less well than more modest incremental comparisons. Theorists do not realize that the administrator is often in
fact practicing a systematic method. **It would be foolish to push this explanation too far, for sometimes practical
decision-makers are pursuing neither a theoretical approach nor successive comparisons, nor any other systematic
method.** [emphasis mine]

>None the less, its imperfections, which have not been explored in this paper, are many. For example, the method is
without a built-in safeguard for all relevant values, and it also may lead the decision-maker to overlook excellent
policies for no other rea- son than that they are not suggested by the chain of successive policy steps leading up to
the present.

^^ Basically, like I said, it is inherently incapable of drastic change.

> This raises again a question only briefly discussed above on the merits of like-minded- ness among government
administrators. While much of organization theory argues the vir- tues of common values and agreed organizational
objectives, for complex problems in which the root method is inapplicable, agencies will want among their own personnel
two types of diversification: administrators whose thinking is organized by reference to policy chains other than those
familiar to most members of the organization and, even more commonly, administrators whose professional or personal
values or interests create diversity of view (perhaps coming from different specialties, social classes, geographical
areas) so that, even within a single agency, decision-making can be fragmented and parts of the agency can serve as
watchdogs for other parts.

^^ The need for diversity--of those with different "policy chains" and with different "views".

```bib
@article{lindblom_science_1959,
  title = {The {Science} of "{Muddling} {Through}"},
  volume = {19},
  issn = {00333352},
  url = {https://www.jstor.org/stable/973677?origin=crossref},
  doi = {10.2307/973677},
  number = {2},
  urldate = {2020-10-22},
  journal = {Public Administration Review},
  author = {Lindblom, Charles E.},
  year = {1959},
  pages = {79},
}
```
